# Sudoku project

## Requirements:

- Windows/Mac/Linux x86 device.
- git
- zig (0.12.1) <https://ziglang.org/download/>
- Vulkan compatible graphics driver. (Most modern GPUs are compatible)
- On windows the MSVC / Clang compiler is required.

## Building

Ensure you are in the root directory of the project (Where this file is).

First get all dependencies by running the following command:

```shell
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

```shell
zig build -Doptimize=ReleaseFast
```

## How to run UI

You can choose between running via the zig CLI, or invoking the binary directly. The binary files are generated by
build.

```shell
zig build -Doptimize=ReleaseFast run
# Or (after build)
./zig-out/bin/Sudoku
```

### Keyboard bindings.

- Use your mouse and WASD to move around the world.
- Arrow keys to move green "cursor" on board to select input cell.
- Use numbers 1-9 to input numbers into the selected cell.
- Use `P` to solve the current board state.
- Use `N` to generate a new good random puzzle
- Use `R` to generate a puzzle you can undo.
- Use `C` to clear the board.
- Use `Z` to undo the last move.
- Use `Y` to redo the last move.
- Use `H` to generate one hint you can undo.

## Running Sudoku CLI.

Run the CLI

```shell
zig build -Doptimize=ReleaseFast run-sudoku
# Or (after build)
./zig-out/bin/sudoku-backend
```

The Sudoku CLI allows you to run a variety of tests, generate puzzles, solve puzzles from an input format etc.

```shell
zig build -Doptimize=ReleaseFast run-sudoku -- 9x9 MRV fuzz 5
# Or (after build)
./zig-out/bin/sudoku-backend 9x9 MRV fuzz 5
```

> From here on out i will just refer to the CLI as `sudoku-backend` remember to use the correct path to the binary (
> including -- if using zig build).

Keeps generating good random puzzles (up to 4 billion) and solves them.

```shell
sudoku-backend 9x9 MRV gen_100k_bench 
```

How long it takes to generate 100k good random puzzles.

See all available commands by running:

```shell
sudoku-backend
```
